# MIS581-Capstone
CSU Global Capstone Project 

Data analytics can be a great tool in healthcare to help gain new insights, catch health risks earlier or increase the efficiency and effectiveness of care regimens. With the introduction of electronic health records into the field, it is becoming easier to predict risk for patients. Cervical cancer is a common cancer found in people with uteruses. It can develop with little to no symptoms for the patient, making it a high mortality cancer. This study investigates what patient history could be used to assess the risk of a patient developing cervical cancer so that measures can be taken to provide better care for those patients. A database consisting of 858 patients ages, their sexual interactions history, pregnancy history, birth control use, nicotine use, sexually transmitted infection (STI) history, as well as their diagnosis was collected. Logistic regression and decision tree models were applied to the dataset to determine the risk of a patient developing cervical cancer. The analysis found that there were correlations between a patient developing cervical cancer and certain aspects of the patient history. Patient healthcare records can be used to predict patient outcomes and improve patient care. By determining a patient’s risk for developing cervical cancer, more measures can be taken to ensure their care and detect potential cancer earlier.

Origional dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/loveall/cervical-cancer-risk-classification
